---
layout: page
title: HKTR
grand_parent: Finance
parent: Financial Regulatory Reporting
nav_order: 1005
---

# HKTR
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

<br />

## Introduction

The HKTR (Hong Kong Trade Repository) is a centralised registry. Basically financial institutions need to report their OTC derivatives transactions to HKTR daily.

Many jurisdictions have similar regulatory reporting requirements on derivatives after the 2008 financial crisis.




## What to Report

If a financial institution is in-scope, then it needs to report:

1. its new in-scope transactions daily, by asset classes (i.e. interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, credit and commodities - in line with the ISDA product taxonomy)

2. the daily valuations of each of its reported transactions, also by asset classes



## Reporting Timeframe

Financial institutions need to report its new trades and valuations in 2 days.



## Backloading

If a new trade is not uploaded within the T+2 timeframe, then the trade would need to be "backloaded" instead, otherwise the upload will fail. 

In the trade upload file, there is a field that states this upload is a new trade, an amendment, or an backload. 


## "Trade In" and "Book In"

"Trade In": means the trade is executed by an execution agent (traders) in the jurisdiction, i.e. execution agent located in HK.

"Book In": means the trade is booked to a trading party in Hong Kong, i.e. the fund is domiciled in HK.

Trades traded by an HKTR in-scope entity or booked to an HKTR in-scope entity are consequently in-scope of HKTR reporting.


## Reporting Platforms

Although institutions can report their trades through the HKTR platform, they can also utilize platforms like DTCC, Bloomberg or S&P to report their trades.


## Reporting Party

In most cases (not just HKTR), trade repository reporting is handled by the investment manager on behalf of the fund itself.


## In-scope Products

Only OTC derivatives need to be reported to the HKTR, common products are swaps, FX forwards, bond forwards, OTC options, CDS, etc are in scope.

Listed futures and repos are not in scope.